UNIT 1: HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM

VIDEO: Sustainable Surfing p. 11
Narrator: Sam Bleakley is a professional longboard 
champion who has a passion for sustainable tourism. 
He is on a mission to find out how people can travel 
more responsibly. Sam has travelled from Cornwall 
in England to Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific 
Ocean. He arrives on New Island. It is a beautiful place 
for tourists to visit, but how can they make sure a trip 
here will help the local community, too?
Sam meets Shane who was born and grew up 
here. Shane has set up a surf resource management 
plan. This means that surfing is managed locally 
to make sure it is done in a sustainable way. The 
prestigious surf school is a great place for tourists to 
come and visit. But most importantly, it helps local 
people protect their land and community.
The idea Shane has come up with was from a project 
he did for a college course.
Shane: Keep the numbers small because that is what 
surfers want. They don’t want to surf with crowds. 
They want to be with a couple of their friends and 
off somewhere remote. It also needed to have good 
benefits back into the area it was in, it needed to be 
something that made everyone happy.
Narrator: Shane recruits local people to become 
guides and gives them training, too. Their jobs are fun 
and rewarding.
The land belongs to the locals and so any money that 
is made goes directly to the local people.
Local children in the community also benefit. Sam 
visits a school with a new classroom that was funded 
by the surf management plan. If the school wasn’t 
given this money, this classroom wouldn’t be here 
today. Without a management plan in place, the locals 
would have lost land and money to outsiders. 
Shane: Nothing wrong with running a profitable 
business, as long as everyone profits. You can set up 
good tourism so that there’s benefits all along the way. 
Anywhere that you’re visiting make sure that there’s 
benefits going back in, even if it’s as simple things as 
you’re just buying produce or handicrafts. Make sure 
that if you’re going across someone’s cultural areas 
that you’re getting permission and engaging them to 
take you around and show you these things.
Narrator: Sam’s trip has come to an end. He hopes 
more places around the world will work in the same 
way as the surf management plan works here in 
Papua New Guinea, where hospitality is rewarding for 
everyone.