UNIT 2: SOLVING URBAN CHALLENGES

VIDEO: Urban Solution: Farming on  
Rooftops p. 31
Woman: So many cities face the same challenge of 
aging infrastructure. And rooftop farming is a terrific 
way of making use of these industrial buildings. And 
then, of course, they really have such a tremendous 
environmental benefit to the ecosystem. At the small 
scale at which it’s practiced in cities around the world, 
you know, it’s a drop in the bucket, but if we can gain 
some momentum, we can really create a tidal shift.
Man: This is a slight beautification project.
Man: I grew up in Wisconsin, but I didn’t realize my 
passion until I was out in New York City, and then 
looking around the city and seeing thousands of open, 
flat roofs with full sun on them, with absolutely no 
utilization. It was a great opportunity to just dive into 
it and to pioneer a movement.
Man: There’s lunch, or breakfast.
Man: We have two and a half acres of rooftop farm 
space in Brooklyn and Queens. Our core business is 
vegetables, but we’ve also started New York City’s first 
urban apiary. We also have 22 chickens. They’re not a 
considerable revenue stream for us, but they’re very 
valuable in terms of completing the circle of life up on 
the farm. We have well over a million pounds of soil on 
the roof. This roof took several weeks of pumping up 
the soil with a blower truck. Essentially, a hopper with 
a pressurized tube pushes the soil up. It’s a compost 
from a mushroom production in Pennsylvania, 
blended with a mixture of several different type of 
stones that are very porous. So, they weigh less than a 
typical rock, and then they can allow water to fill into 
the pores. They can also harbor microbial activity and 
also allow for proper drainage and aeration of the soil, 
meaning that we don’t end up with one big swimming 
pool up on the roof if we get a lot of rain.
Woman: Our rooftop farms each manage about a 
million gallons of storm water per year. We also reduce 
1

2
© Cengfige Lefirning, Inc.
LEARNING
Pathways
Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking
THIRD EDITION
LEVEL 4 Video Scripts
urban heat island effect. We clean the air around us 
and decrease the amount of HVAC of the upper floors 
of the buildings beneath us. But probably the most 
unique benefit of our farm is to the community around 
us. We have the opportunity to link New Yorkers back 
into their food production system. It’s something from 
which we’ve become so alienated.
Man: Utilizing even all of our total roofs would not 
even produce a significant fraction of the amount of 
food that New York City needs to eat. However, that 
definitely does not mean that something like this 
shouldn’t be happening.
Woman: I was born and raised here in New York City. I 
want to live in a healthier city, in a more beautiful city, 
and a more delicious city.