UNIT 4: GOING GLOBAL

VIDEO: What Is a Global Citizen? p. 71
[Question on screen: What is a global citizen?]
Woman: Ha! Let me think about that.
Man: This is a difficult, a difficult question, I must say.
Man: A global citizen is in, in my opinion, a global 
citizen is someone who knows he or she is not only part 
of his family or her family or her city or her country, but 
part of a big, bigger scenery of a bigger world.
Man: A global citizen is somebody who has respect for 
himself first.
Man: A global citizen is a citizen of the globe.
Man: This is about building our understanding about 
the globe, about the world, its complexities, its 
dynamics.
Woman: A global citizen is one who has the skills, 
the knowledge, and the values to be able to live well 
with people who are within his community, his or her 
community, within his or her nation and globally.
Woman: OK. A global citizen is unique as everyone 
else.
[Question on screen: Why should everyone be a global 
citizen?]
Woman: Everyone should be a global citizen because 
we live in a very interconnected and interdependent 
world. We can’t, we live in an age and time, when we 
cannot be without understanding the other.
Man: Since we are part of the world, we have the 
responsibility to make our world better.
Man: Everyone should be a global citizen because 
we live in one society. And as what Ubuntu said “I 
am because you are, and because you are, I am,” so 
everyone is interconnected and that everyone has to 
be aware and has to be respectful and has to embrace 
a concept of diversity.

3
© Cengfige Lefirning, Inc.
LEARNING
Pathways
Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking
THIRD EDITION
LEVEL 4 Video Scripts
[Question on screen: As a global citizen, what do 
you do?]
Man: As a global citizen, I think it’s very important that 
I’m able to encounter and connect with a number of 
different cultures and different peoples around the 
world.
Man: Well, that’s a good question. As a global citizen, 
I’m always trying to engage in actions to solve 
problems I think are urgent or matters.
Woman: What I do is every opportunity that I get, I 
educate other people on what it means to be a global 
citizen and why it is very essential.
Man: What I do basically now is trust, learning to 
respect myself, learning to understand that I’m a 
citizen, and I’m qualified to live like other people.
Woman: As a global citizen. Well, I think being a global 
citizen is just being a human. So I’m being a human.