UNIT 5: FACING YOUR FEARS

VIDEO: How Fear and Anxiety Drove Human 
Evolution p. 91
Narrator: The heart races. Deep breaths are hard to 
find. Blood rushes through the body. That’s fear. Anxiety.
Dr. Sonia Bishop: Scientifically, we tend to talk about 
fear as being a response to immediate threats which 
is right there in front of us. Anxiety is where there’s the 
possibility of danger, but it’s kind of looming on the 
horizon and we’re trying to work out how probable is 
it. How bad might it be. What can we do to avoid it.
Narrator: Think of a lion right in front of you. That’s an 
immediate threat looming in the distance, not as scary 
but still something to be worried about.
Dr. Kristin Bianchi: Evolutionarily, think about the 
hyper-vigilance that goes along with anxiety as a very 
adaptive trait.
Narrator: Because a long time ago, the world was 
super dangerous, and humans needed to use that 
hyper-vigilance as a way to evolve. It all starts here, 
specifically in this region.
Dr. Sonia Bishop: Amygdala is kind of flashing away, 
saying there’s something dangerous we need to react 
to, and we release various neurotransmitters, and we 
need some of those to have a good level of attention. 
To be able to be focused.
Narrator: OK, back to the brain. The amygdala going 
into overdrive is necessary for short-term threats, but 
can have negative consequences when threats persist 
for the long term.
Dr. Sonia Bishop: So we can think of neurons in the 
brain as being a bit like trees with branches and those 
branches are called dendrites. And the prefrontal 
cortex, which is involved in reasoning and decision-
making, we actually see those branches begin to kind 
of wither and die back. While as in the amygdala we 
see those branches kind of grow and develop. And so 
that can lead us to have stronger responses to danger 
and for them to be less regulated.
Narrator: This deregulation can further lead to anxiety 
and in some cases show a correlation with depression 
and trauma. But these factors aren’t permanent and 
positive approaches to mental health can help reduce 
them over time. Our ancestors saw situations that 
challenged their safety and well-being but overcame 
them.
Dr. Kristin Bianchi: Humans are adaptable. We are 
resilient. And we have that in us.
Narrator: So even when fearful and anxious, we’ll do 
what we’ve always done: use our emotions to evolve.