UNIT 6: TRADITION AND PROGRESS

VIDEO: The Way of Indigenous Boatbuilding  
p. 111
Kiliii Yüyan: I spent a lot of my life doing survival skills. 
I’m doing primitive skills—bushcraft. In that time, 
I learned how important it is to be able to eat, you 
know, to have food. And, you know, you spend a lot of 
time, like, hunting and trapping and gathering food 
like wild greens and stuff, but ultimately where the 
where the good action is at is fish. You know, in order 
to get fish, it’s all about having a boat.
Well, my name is Kiliii Yüyan, and I am a kayak builder. 
I build skin-on-frame kayaks which is, uh, skin-on-
frame kayaks have a long tradition, and I’m one of 
the contemporary boat builders that carries on the 
tradition of building skin-on-frames.
A lot of the techniques that we use are traditional, 
but nowadays we borrow a lot of stuff from Japanese 
woodworking as well as other modern woodworking 

4
© Cengfige Lefirning, Inc.
LEARNING
Pathways
Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking
THIRD EDITION
LEVEL 4 Video Scripts
traditions. We’re using, like, planes and Japanese saws 
and rasps and things like that. And it’s kind of nice 
because the, the hand tools that we use are pretty 
low-tech, so everything’s designed to be used done by 
hand. So, there’s almost no usage of power tools. So it’s 
a pretty easy way to build stuff, and it doesn’t require a 
lot of fancy tools.
So, the boats that we design, skin-on-frame kayaks, 
are part of a long tradition of boat building. They, the 
kayaks, originally come from around the Pacific Rim 
and portions of Canada. But they’re basically all the 
places where there were no trees. Trees didn’t grow. 
It’s above the tree line. And so, the only way you could 
build a boat was to find driftwood on the beach, build 
a frame, and then they took marine mammals and 
then skinned them, covered them with the skins of 
seals.
A big part of building skin-on-frames is to kind of 
tap into that tradition and then to kind of learn how 
can you hand build a boat, a boat that’s really useful 
to yourself with minimal resources. With a minimum 
amount of time and effort build an excellent boat.
I want people to kind of get a glimpse at Indigenous 
technology. To look at something that’s really different 
and really cool and say, “OK, wow, this is something 
that Indigenous people did and continue to do, and 
it’s amazing.” You have the ability to travel really long 
distances in a boat that you can put all of your gear in 
so you can go expedition you can go for a month or 
two months at a time and take everything you need 
with you and live off the land and just go camping 
indefinitely.
It’s this transport vessel, it’s a fishing vessel, and it’s 
your closest companion for when you’re out on an 
expedition. It’s just a really wonderful way to travel 
and to see the land to see the ocean and to live. It’s a, 
yeah, it’s a great, great way to go about it.