UNIT 7: MONEY IN OUR LIVES

VIDEO: The Money Illusion p. 131
Eric Leclerc: Why are people so obsessed with money? 
After all, if you take your brain out of the equation, 
isn’t it all just paper?
Eric Leclerc: What’s your name?
A: Andrea.
Eric Leclerc: Hi, Andrea. I’m Eric. Nice to meet you. I’m 
a magician from Canada. Don’t hold it against me.
Eric Leclerc: Have you ever been to Canada?
B: I have not.
Eric Leclerc: You should! It’s super nice. It’s super 
warm. There’s no snow. People are super impolite.
Eric Leclerc: Have you ever been to Canada, sir?
C: Yeah, actually, I just got back from Canada Sunday.
Eric Leclerc: No way! So you’ve seen Canadian money 
if you just came back from Canada.
C: It looks a lot like that.
Eric Leclerc: So that’s Canadian. That’s what Canadian 
money looks like. Have you ever seen Canadian 
money?
A: Uh, yeah.
Eric Leclerc: This is what Canadian money actually 
looks like.
A: This is what it really looks like?
Eric Leclerc: Are you buying this at all?
A: Nuh uh.
Eric Leclerc: So how much would you say this is worth, 
this, these Canadian bills. How much would you say?
B: I wouldn’t say, I think it’s worthless.
Eric Leclerc: You think it’s probably worth, it’s worth 
the paper that it’s printed on?
B: Exactly.
Eric Leclerc: Yes? OK. Well, actually, because I’m in 
New York, I tried buying a hotdog with this yesterday. 
No go. The guy looked at me like like “can’t buy hot 
dogs with that Canadian money.”
I have a 20, 40, 60, 80 bucks here. I’m gonna actually 
show you how we print in Canada. How we print our 
money.
Just like that, it actually changes into American money. 
So now I can actually go buy some hot dogs.
I switch it like that, and it actually just came all back 
to twenty-dollar bills, and then that’s how I make my 
money as a Canadian magician.
A: Can you change it back?
Eric Leclerc: Uh . . .
A: Because I would think if you were a magician, you 
should be able to change it back.

5
© Cengfige Lefirning, Inc.
LEARNING
Pathways
Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking
THIRD EDITION
LEVEL 4 Video Scripts
Eric Leclerc: I could, but if you wouldn’t have tried to 
grab it out of my hands, I could have changed it back. 
No, actually I can’t change it back. It’s a one-time thing. 
Yeah, it’s definitely one time.
A: That’s not as impressive as I thought it would be.
Eric Leclerc: Well, you know what? OK, here all right, 
here I’ll change it, I’ll change it. Ready? Watch.
A: OK. That’s, that’s good.
Eric Leclerc: If you’re one of those people who always 
has paper on their mind, remember the only true value 
of money is all in your head.