UNIT 8: HEALTH AND TECHNOLOGY

VIDEO: Biking in the City p. 151
Stephen Chillrud: Air pollution is bad for you. And 
we know that exercise is good for you. But there’s 
this unanswered question of is exercising in close 
proximity to traffic enough of a bad thing for you that 
we should be recommending separating biking lanes 
from traffic altogether?
Patrick Kinney: The challenge with biking in the city 
is that bikers are breathing heavily in the zone where 
exhaust is being emitted by motor vehicles. And 
although motor vehicles have become cleaner over 
the last 20 or 30 years, they’re still not as clean as they 
need to be, especially when you put people that are 
exercising right in the close proximity of the exhaust.
Darby Jack: The primary goal of the study is to 
develop and deploy new ways of measuring air 
pollution. What we’re doing is measuring both the 
concentrations of pollution that people encounter as 
they move around the city, and we’re also measuring 
people’s respiration rates or the liters per minute of 
air that they’re breathing in and multiply those two 
things together you get the dose. We have five things 
that people wear. So they wear a shirt that measures 
their minute inhalation, and it measures their heart 
rate, including their heart rate variability. So, the 
timing of the beats. And then we ask them to wear two 
air pollution monitors. And then we ask them to wear 
a blood pressure monitor that automatically takes a 
measurement every half hour. And then finally during 
the ride, we ask them to log their location using a GPS 
device.
Stephen Chillrud: We have two years to work out 
all the bugs and prove that we can make all the 
measurements that we need to make. Then and only 
then would we get the green light to go on and do the 
larger health study.
Patrick Kinney: We know from a lot of other previous 
studies that breathing the tiny little particles that are 
emitted by motor vehicles, especially diesel vehicles, 
are of concern because of the fact that those tiny 
particles get deep into our lungs. And they can even 
be absorbed into our blood stream and cause health 
effects in various parts of our body. Including over the 
long-term, if you’re exposed, you know, for many years 
to the development of cardiovascular disease of the 
kind that we see with cigarette smoking. Our goal is to 
have a phone app that kind of looks like a Google Map 
that would optimize a route that minimizes exposure. 
You know, but also trading off against the time that it 
would take to follow that route, so that a person could 
choose some balance between saving time and saving 
air pollution exposure.