UNIT 9: THE MYSTERIOUS MIND

VIDEO: Your Memory Under Stress p. 171
Narrator: Take a look at your screen. Behind these 
cards are ten pairs of images. Here’s a sneak peek. In 
a moment, you’ll have five seconds to memorize the 
location of each pair which should be plenty of time. 
Ready? Go.
Now we’re going to flip over just one card. All you have 
to do is call out the number of the matching card. 
You have three seconds. Ready? Go. Did you choose 
number eight? There’s the other wrench. If you missed 
it, don’t worry. You’ll have two more chances. Take a 
look at the objects one more time. Ready for another? 
Here’s the next card. Did you pick one? There’s the 
football. Take one more look at the board. Let’s do one 
more. Did you pick eighteen? There’s the other pair 
of headphones. If you couldn’t locate all three pairs, 
don’t worry. You’re like 90 percent of the people we 
surveyed. But did you notice some of the ways we 
made the game more stressful? By adding tight time 
constraints and the loud noise of the ticking clock, we 
set off your brain’s alarm bells.

6
© Cengfige Lefirning, Inc.
LEARNING
Pathways
Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking
THIRD EDITION
LEVEL 4 Video Scripts
Narrator: It’s the same thing that happens to most 
people when they have to speak in public. And as 
comedian Ben Bailey knows, the physical symptoms 
can be dramatic.
Ben Bailey: You can’t remember what you’re going to 
say next. Then your heart starts pounding. Your tongue 
feels so big it’s filling your entire mouth. You lose your 
train of thought. And you’re dead in the water, right?
Man: That is exactly what happened.
Ben: Yeah, I know. I was talking about you. It doesn’t 
happen to me.
Narrator: Ben is right. And every stress response he 
just mentioned is triggered by your amygdala. When 
you’re facing stress, the most primitive part of your 
brain, the amygdala, signals a flood of hormones 
into your bloodstream that includes adrenaline and 
cortisol. These hormones cause your breathing to 
quicken, your heart to pump faster, and your senses 
to become sharper. All in an effort to combat any 
perceived threat, even if that threat is just a tough 
crowd or your daily commute.