UNIT 10: THE FUTURE OF FOOD

VIDEO: Food-Waste Rebel p. 191
Man: Now here we have an ordinary loaf of 
homemade bread. Watch closely.
Woman: Imagine that. A whole loaf of bread 
disappearing before our very eyes.
Man: Oh, madam, that is nothing. You far excel me at 
making bread disappear.
Woman: What are you talking about? I can’t make 
anything disappear.
Tristram Stuart: A third of all the world’s food is 
currently being wasted.
Man: Watch this.
Man: There, madam, is the amount of bread that you 
cause to disappear every week through household 
waste.
Tristram Stuart: Over the last 40 years, food has got 
cheaper, and people have become more affluent. It’s a 
disposable commodity for a lot of people.
Man: Once something special for Sunday dinner, 
chicken is now thrifty every day.
Tristram Stuart: Big corporations have invested 
billions of dollars into working out how to trigger that 
evolutionary impulse to take and take more. More and 
more and more.
Man: And these boxes join the never-ending parade of 
food on the move.
Tristram Stuart: Every week, we buy 20 percent, 30 
percent more food than we’re even going to eat. We 
chuck the rest in the trash. Go to the grocery stores, 
and they get stock at the end of the day that is nearing 
its expiry. A lot of grocery stores, maybe your local one, 
chucks it in the trash.
Man: These products come from farms and ranches 
despite distance and season.
Tristram Stuart: The fruit and vegetables that you 
buy in the store—it’s not normal for them to look 
so perfect. And if an orange has even a slight skin 
blemish, a little scar that has no impact on the 
freshness, the taste, the longevity of that food, it gets 
rejected. What kind of sense does that make? Food is 
land. Food is forests. You have to chop down forests 
to grow more food. Food is water, food is labor, food 
is love. In our homes, we can stop food waste. But we 
can also demand that the businesses that bring us 
our food every day stop wasting their food and stop 
causing their farmers to waste food. And they will only 
do that, if we demand it.